Friends here our concept is print f command,
C print f command is similar to echo command with some advantages,
let me go with step-by-step.
Basically both ICO and printed commands or used to display string or value of a variable.
But the basic difference between echo and print f command
is echoes sends a new line at the end of its output by default,
but it is not in print f command.
Let me show you that with an example.
Suppose I am displaying the string using echo command S0, the output.
No, let me display the same string using print f command and observe the output.
By default, echo is sending in newline at the end of its output,
but it is not in print f command.
Of course, we can send forcefully the new line at the end
of its output just by adding slash n at the end of your printer.
That's it.
Now let me take a variable.
You know how to display variable value using a COCOMO.
Same thing you can do with your printf as well.
But while working with your print def,
you need to add slash and at the end, not so fine.
Then what is the advantage with print f command S0?
The advantage is we can format the output.
Let me explain this with an, with an example.
Suppose I'm implementing a shell script called Git installed dot-dot-dot
H. Just assume that no,
I want to decorate my output.
Then using echo command.
Suppose I am writing these many hyphens.
Then echo in the middle of this.
Suppose I want to write get installation.
Yeah, let me write that. Then in the next line,
again, I want to write these mini hyphens.
Just I want to decorate my output while learning my shell script.
Let me provide the execution permissions for this.
Now let me run this.
Yes, you are getting.
Now my requirement is I need to write these hyphens in the entire line.
Then I want to get this get installation in the middle of this line.
Then.
How many hyphens you heard, right?
So how many columns are there per
line that many hyphens you ought to write a new echo command.
C, there is a default command called peep, put columns.
By using that, you will get number of columns per line or per row.
So how many lines are there for your terminal?
How many rows are there for your terminal?
You can get by using P put command.
Now one Montreal or there.
Now, if you want to get 103 hyphens per line,
then you have to open the word script.
And then here you have to write 103 times.
So this hyphen, Of course you can write it.
But manual work is that more manual work is that instead of that,
if you know about print f command,
there is a shortcut with your printf command, print def.
Suppose I am writing,
don't worry about this. We'll discuss are voting.
Then you are getting all lines are empty lines.
No, I'm using you or p or command all empty spaces.
Convert into hyphens.
That's a same output.
You can also get using echo command,
but for that you need to use this much logic.
You how to use this much logic.
See how many lines we are having here.
But using print f command, it is very simple.
So sometimes your print f command is very helpful to decorate your output,
not only for your output declaration,
it is also useful in your AWPA command as well.
Now, let me show you the syntax.
So printf, format slash and
we know why will it use lesion on it is often sometimes we can use it,
sometimes you can skip it.
Then arguments format with modifiers and then arguments.
So what is this format?
What is this modifier, as we will see.
And this format or format with modifies or optional.
But if you are using print f command,
most of the cases you will use format or
format with modifies concept in your print f command.
First, let me go with the format command with only,
sorry, print f command with only format option.
Now the, here's the syntax.
Then these are the formats.
So if you are the ways developer,
then you ought to know about all formats.
But if you are the automation engineer,
you just to go with the percentile, D,
percentile, EF, and percentile, yes.
And that is enough most of the cases.
Now, let me show you that.
Suppose I am taking a variable called x equals to phi and y equals to some float number.
Now, if you go with a command directly,
you can display your x and y values using dollar
x delta V. Now let me drive it, print f command.
And let me add slash. And at the end.
This is fine. This is the straightforward.
We're using print f command.
But if you want to decorate,
then the how to use format or format with modifies.
First, let me use format to print my two variable values.
So print f.
Suppose I am using percentile d four x percent wasn't able default white.
Then at the end I'm adding slash and
then make sure that you have to always write your arguments.
You are variables inside of quotations.
So first the already,
then second I wanted to split.
All right, now the meaningful disease.
So if you know C language,
this is similar to C language.
Print f command, print f,
a functional statement in your C.
So in place of this x value will be displayed in
place of this second percentile D-Wave value will be display.
But after the output, what happened?
Yeah, I missed one quotation.
See the output.
You are getting phi and seven,
you are not getting 7890.
You are getting an error because here x is a integer.
Then if for integers you how to use percentile D. But y is a float point.
That's why you had to use percent alia.
Now see the output.
That's it.
If you want to display any string,
let me take my name.
I am taking shell scripting.
Now suppose I want to display string,
integer and float point order is your wish.
Suppose first I want to display string,
then take percent alias.
Then I'm taking some spaces.
Then I want to display integer.
Then Spaces.
Then f, then just write slash and then my name.
Then your x.
You have to write quotations for your variables or arguments.
Then Y, C, the output that you see.
Along with this, you can also write some misses here.
Suppose I'm writing before percent LES,
I'm writing my name equals two.
You can decorate your output.
My number, my integer number,
or simply my number equals two, my float.
Let's say that output.
So that is the uses of format or print f command width format.
Then next important one is print f command with format with modifiers.
Let me show you that. See these all are different modifiers for your format.
Let me go with one by one.
Suppose we, let me take this print f percent ld.
I want to display x value,
then I can display in this way.
But I want to display my x value.
After four spaces.
Then see that I'm taking number five and see the output 1234.
After that, you are displaying your number.
Right? Now.
I want to pad with zeros in foster for patients,
then 0 phi c,
That is your axes phi.
Suppose I am taking, you may get confused.
Instead of phi I am taking here.
Suppose some seven, no,
see that is a, that's it.
So this is one of the modifier for your format.
Format is percent ld.
For that you are modifying your output.
That is Modifier format modifier.
Now let me take print f for Santa L,
E F. Now I am displaying, sorry,
y-value, sorry, dollar Y-value.
Now I want to get only two fractional parts here.
Then see that how I'm doing that,
how I'm modifying my format geodata to.
Now see the output. Geodata three means three fractional parts.
I want our ten fractional parts I want.
And I want to display this.
Suppose, let me take some 20 positions in key positions,
I want to display my y-value and preferences by default, a right alignment.
See that total 20 spaces and write down meant by default.
Now are remaining spaces are what our space are there.
And left aside, I want to fill with zeros,
then write g 025.
And suppose if you want to make your alignment to towards left,
and this is by default towards right.
Now we can write simply minus here,
minus 20 C, the output.
That's it.
So under here, yen,
any number directly can provide.
Then minus 0. By default.
Is there you don't need to provide a place just if you write minus that is the right,
left alignment by default,
right element that is four plus and 02 pads with bad results with the leading zeros.
Then there is a star.
So same meaning.
Let me show you that.
Suppose I am taking some position or alignment position.
Let me take P position as sum 90.
Men don't take 90. Yeah, let me take 40.
Now first thing directly,
I can write print f for sente 40,
EF slash n, Then you want dollar value.
So in 40 positions,
right element is there by default.
So this is fixed.
Suppose if you want to read a variable value four to align your position,
then take one variable and really were alignment required element into that
variable and that variable also you can substitute
here so far that you can just take star here, star.
Now for this a star,
you have to write your variable here.
Dollar p.
That's directly if you have a number,
if you want to write, you can probably hear.
But if your number is there in a variable,
you can use this syntax.
There is one more syntax.
Instead of writing here dollar p directly in place of star also you can write dollar t,
dollar, but use curly braces here.
That's it.
Now let me take p equals some 70.
Now see the output.
That's it.
So friends, this is the way how to use print f command to decorate your output.
Right?
Now let me show you one more output.
Suppose I have a simple shell script just to center your string,
c, that c the code.
So this is my tidy.
I want to display this title in the center.
And for that I am giving borders top and don't
further see that print f command I'm using here printf command.
And here I'm using print f command.
Between that I'm printing my tidy in the middle.
So for to find the middle position simply I'm
calculating total columns and the size of my title.
Then I'm taking average so that you will get your title in the middle of your line.
That's it. Okay.
Okay.
Thank you for watching this video.